[< PREV](ADR001.md) | [MAIN](../README.md) | [ADR List](README.md) | [NEXT >](ADR003.md)

---

# Architectural Decision Record
## Utilization of Event-Driven Architecture combined with a Microservice Architecture
Date: 15.09.2023

## Status
Accepted

## Context
Throught the analysis of the architectural characteristics required of the system, as well as the possible architectural styles with hybrid approaches included, we concluded that a hybrid between Event-Driven Architecture and Microservice Architecture would be the most beneficial choice. One of the key factors to make that decision was the requirement for the application to work internationally, which requires components that are easily deployable, possible to be segmented per region and capable to interoperate seamlessly.

## Decision
Chosen architectural style for this project is a hybrid between Event-Driven and Microservice Architecture.

## Consequences

### Positive:
- High interoperability between elements distributed in several regions,
- Lightweight components that are easily scaleable to provide a performance boost during peak usage,
- Cost efficient, as the costs are related directly to the usage of computing power.

### Negative:
- Microservices need to be precisly optimized to process data as fast as possible.

### Risks:
- New features to the application may result in additional latency if chain dependencies are introduced.

### Risks mitigation:
- Iterate through the design to limit the dependencies to message broker distribution topics.

### Additional Features:
- Capability to broadcast data and use wildcard taxonomy to gather data from many sources.

------

[< PREV](ADR001.md) | [MAIN](../README.md) | [ADR List](README.md) | [NEXT >](ADR003.md)
