  [< PREV](ADR005.md) | [MAIN](../README.md) | [ADR List](README.md) | [NEXT >](ADR007.md)

---

# Architectural Decision Record
## Application distributed to multiple regions
Date: 15.09.2023

## Status
Accepted

## ADR ID
ADR006

## ADR Version
1.0 - 15.09.2023

## Context
The Road Warrior application must be available internationally, to enable that it must be properly distributed through cloud regions to provide low latency access for users. 

## Decision
The application will be deployed, mainteined and scaled depending on usage in each cloud region. 

## Consequences

### Positive:
- Low latency access,
- Better availability,

### Negative:
- Requires advanced database replication mechanisms

### Risks:
- Cost overheads: operating a multi-region application can be costlier than a single-region deployment due to the increased infrastructure and data transfer costs associated with distributing data and workloads.
- Complex disaster recovery planning: while multi-region deployments enhance resilience, they require comprehensive disaster recovery planning. Failures in one region should not lead to prolonged downtime or data loss.

### Risks mitigation:
- Monitor and optimize resource usage to control costs. Implement cost-effective data transfer and storage strategies and consider using serverless or auto-scaling services to reduce idle resource costs.
- Develop a robust disaster recovery strategy that includes automated failover mechanisms, data backups and region-specific redundancy. Disaster recovery procedures should be tested regularly to ensure they work as intended.

### Additional Features:
- 

------

[< PREV](ADR005.md) | [MAIN](../README.md) | [ADR List](README.md) | [NEXT >](ADR007.md)
