  [< PREV](ADR006.md) | [MAIN](../README.md) | [ADR List](README.md) | [NEXT >](ADR008.md)

---

# Architectural Decision Record
## Utilizing active PubSub message brokers
Date: 15.09.2023

## Status
Accepted

## ADR ID
ADR007

## ADR Version
1.0 - 15.09.2023

## Context
Classical JMS Message Brokers are passive applications that receive data on a push basis and distribute data by means of a JMS Listener in each application, which is an active poller mechanism pulling the messages from the broker when they are available. Mordern message brokers have the capability to push messages to a static IP address (e.g. a gateway address of a multi instance API), just like a webhook mechanism, therefore lowering the usage of resources consumed by subscribing applications.

## Decision
We wil use modern active PubSub message brokers to optimize resource usage on the applications side.

## Consequences
### Positive:
- Lower resource consumption,
- The capability to push messages from topics to static address APIs which then can be load balanced to an instance solves the message duplication problem that is created when multiple instances subscribe to the same topic,
- We can utilize dynamic subscriptions based on wildcards ("*" - for string fragments in the middle of the topic name or ">" - for wildcarding any string after this point),
- Capability to create event meshes if needed by future requirements,

### Negative:
- Fairly new technology that might require additional staff training,

### Risks:
- Message loss: in a PubSub system, if not properly designed and configured, there is a risk of message loss. Messages might be dropped if the broker or subscribers experience issues or if the system is overwhelmed with incoming messages.
- Message ordering: maintaining message ordering can be challenging, especially in distributed environments. Subscribers might receive messages out of order, impacting the correctness of the system.
- Operational challenges: maintaining and monitoring a PubSub system can be operationally challenging. Monitoring message flows, diagnosing issues and ensuring high availability require dedicated efforts.


### Risks mitigation:
- Implement mechanisms for message persistence and guaranteed delivery, such as message acknowledgment and retries. Choose a message broker with strong durability guarantees.
- Choose a message broker that provides ordering guarantees or implement sequencing and buffering mechanisms within Road Warrior to ensure proper message order.
- Invest in robust monitoring and observability tools next to automated alerts and recovery mechanisms to respond to failures promptly.

### Additional Features:
- 

------

[< PREV](ADR006.md) | [MAIN](../README.md) | [ADR List](README.md) | [NEXT >](ADR008.md)
